Postman: The World's Leading API Platform | Sign Up for Free Home Product POSTMAN PLATFORM Postman Overview Security Integrations EXPLORE Postman API Network MCP Catalog Download Postman → DESIGN Spec Hub Manage specifications Mock Servers Validate API behavior Documentation Host and share docs BUILD Collections Organize API requests Workspaces Collaborate with teams Flows Create visual workflows TEST API Client Send API requests Collection Runner Run API workflows Postman CLI Run from command line OBSERVE Insights Track every endpoint Monitors Validate performance Distribute Private APIs Share APIs internally Partner APIs Allow partner access Public APIs Publish APIs globally AI AI Agent Builder Build AI agents MCP Server Connect AI agents Postbot Automate API tasks Pricing Enterprise Why Postman Resources Learn Learning Hub Docs Postman Academy Templates Customer stories CONNECT Community Events Discord GET SUPPORT Support Center Release notes Postman Status Trust and Security POSTMAN Blog Press and media About Postman Contact Sales Sign In Sign Up for Free Product POSTMAN PLATFORM Postman Overview Security Integrations EXPLORE Postman API Network MCP Catalog Download Postman → DESIGN Spec Hub Manage specifications Mock Servers Validate API behavior Documentation Host and share docs BUILD Collections Organize API requests Workspaces Collaborate with teams Flows Create visual workflows TEST API Client Send API requests Collection Runner Run API workflows Postman CLI Run from command line OBSERVE Insights Track every endpoint Monitors Validate performance Distribute Private APIs Share APIs internally Partner APIs Allow partner access Public APIs Publish APIs globally AI AI Agent Builder Build AI agents MCP Server Connect AI agents Postbot Automate API tasks Pricing Enterprise Why Postman Resources Learn Learning Hub Docs Postman Academy Templates Customer stories CONNECT Community Events Discord GET SUPPORT Support Center Release notes Postman Status Trust and Security POSTMAN Blog Press and media About Postman Contact Sales Sign In Sign Up for Free AI needs context. APIs deliver it. Postman is the platform where teams build those APIs together. With built-in support for the Model Context Protocol (MCP), Postman helps you design, test, and manage APIs that power both human workflows and intelligent agents. Sign Up for Free Watch a Demo Download the desktop app for Your AI strategy is only as strong as your APIs Most teams aren't as ready as they think. Explore the strategies, pitfalls, and practices that rescue APIs from chaos, and see what top teams are doing differently. Learn more Speed up API development through team collaboration Prototype, document, test, and demo all your APIs in one place. Get early feedback by having conversations in the context of any API, whether internal, public, or partner, without jumping between tools. Move fast to that 200 OK Transform API development from an individual to a team sport. Get to that first API call faster, improve developer onboarding, and increase API discoverability. Execute, test, and interact with APIs in seconds Open and extensible by design, collections in Postman expedite self-serve API consumption across the org, so devs can start testing APIs and building workflows. Reduce duplication of work for your teams Organize API collections in to workspaces where API changes can be seen in real-time, by everyone. Faster time to first API call Automatically create documentation on how to interact with APIs for faster onboarding, consistency across teams, and strong partner collaboration. Fewer errors means higher-quality APIs Move fast to build quality APIs without breaking things by managing every phase of the API workflow together on a single platform. Discover, share, and run tests, together Avoid building from scratch or writing lengthy descriptions about API issues by storing and sharing APIs in Collections. Change doesn't have to be hard Seamlessly update, edit, deprecate, and communicate changes on APIs so even the simplest API change doesn't bring havoc to your workflow. Debug and write tests with Postbot Use AI in Postman to write test scripts from scratch, generate tests for an entire collection, or visualize API responses with graphs to better understand API output. Trusted by over 500,000 companies, 40 million users, and 98% of the Fortune 500 Connect Postman to your favorite tools Seamlessly integrate with the most important tools your team uses. See how Postman works Fill out the form to get instant access to our guided platform demo. Learn how to design, build, and scale APIs Watch a real team workflow in action See why 40M+ developers choose Postman Your AI strategy is only as strong as your APIs Postman helps teams collaboratively build APIs that power workflows and intelligent agents. With support for the Model Context Protocol (MCP), your APIs are integration ready. Learn how top teams avoid pitfalls and rescue APIs from chaos. Learn more Product What is Postman? Enterprise Spec Hub New Flows Postbot VS Code Extension Postman CLI Integrations Tools API Governance Workspaces Plans and pricing API Network App security Artificial intelligence Communication Data analytics Database Developer productivity DevOps E-commerce eSignature Financial services Payments Travel Resources Postman Docs Academy Community Templates Intergalactic Videos MCP Servers New Legal and Security Terms of Service Postman Product Terms Trust and Safety Privacy policy Cookie notice Company About Careers and culture Contact us Partner program Customer stories Student programs Press and media Download Postman Your privacy choices © 2025 Postman, Inc.