Home Products Google Maps Platform Documentation Send feedback Stay organized with collections Save and categorize content based on your preferences. Google Maps Platform Documentation Explore capabilities See our pricing structure Find the right documentation for the job Explore, learn, and build with comprehensive documentation, sample code, example apps, and more. Maps Help users explore the world with detailed, custom maps products. Routes Help your users optimize the way from A to Z. Places Show users places and points of interest with details at their fingertips. Environment Help users access data to respond to the climate challenges of today. Analytics Discover geospatial datasets and tools that enable you to reveal powerful business and sustainability insights. Maps documentation Maps SDKs Bring the real world to your users with dynamic maps for the web and mobile. JS Android Android 3D iOS iOS 3D HTML Web Components Flutter Static maps Display a static map on your website. URL Street view imagery Add 360° Street View imagery to your apps. JS Android iOS API Elevation Get the elevation of one or a series of locations. JS API Aerial View Create and display Aerial View videos rendered using Google's 3D geospatial imagery. API Map Tiles Provides high-resolution Photorealistic 3D Tiles, 2D Tiles, and Street View Tiles. API Maps Datasets Upload your data to a dataset for use in a Google Maps Platform app. JS API Routes documentation Routes Provide directions with real-time traffic for multiple modes of transport, calculate travel times and distances, and more. API Navigation SDKs Build dynamic navigation experiences for your apps. Android iOS Flutter React Native Roads Identify nearby roads and their speed limits using coordinates. API Route Optimization Optimize multi-stop routes flexibly and intelligently for one or more vehicles. API Places documentation Places API & SDKs Integrate Google's Place details, search, autocomplete, and AI-generated summaries into your apps. JS Android iOS API Places UI Kit Bring the familiar Google Maps user experience for Places to your frontend use cases with a ready-to-use, customizable, and cost-effective component library. JS Android iOS Geocoding Convert coordinates into addresses and addresses into coordinates. JS Android iOS API Geolocation Get an approximate device location using nearby cell towers and WiFi nodes. API Address Validation Validate an address and its components. API Time Zone Determine the time zone for a set of coordinates. API Places Aggregate Provides insights about places within a specified area based on different criteria. API Environment documentation Air Quality Retrieve air quality indexes, pollutants, and health recommendations for specific locations. API Pollen Get pollen information for specific locations, including types, plants, and indexes. API Solar Look up the rooftop solar energy potential for specific buildings. API Weather Get current weather conditions, hourly and daily forecasts, and hourly weather history for specific locations. API Analytics documentation Google Earth Analyze, build, and collaborate with a comprehensive, interactive model of our world. Web Places Insights Get statistical insights from Google Maps places and brands data, using BigQuery. Dataset Imagery Insights Use Google Street View images to fuel geospatial insights. Dataset Roads Management Insights Access, analyze, and monitor road data to improve road networks and public utilities. Dataset Get started Learn the basics of using Google Maps Platform APIs & SDKs. explore Getting started guide Create an account, generate an API key, enable APIs and SDKs, and start building. > Read the guide and get started fast map Build your first map New to Google Maps Platform? Build your first map with a marker. > Try it for JavaScript , Android , and iOS location_on Search for Places Learn how to query Google Maps Platform's comprehensive database of rich place data. > Try it with the Maps JavaScript API and Places API > Get AI-powered place summaries with the Places API navigation Get directions Get your users where they're going fast, with accurate, real-time directions. > Try it with the Routes API Popular docs Browse the docs for some of the most popular Google Maps Platform features. Maps Marker clustering Use the MarkerClustererPlus library to display large numbers of markers. JS Android iOS Maps Routes Places Using TypeScript Integrate the Maps JavaScript API into your web app with TypeScript. JS Maps Styling your maps Create and manage custom map styles from the Google Cloud Console. All platforms Maps Using info windows Display informational text or images to your users in a popup window above the map. JS Android iOS Places Adding Place Autocomplete Integrate a place search dialog with built-in autocomplete functionality into your web and mobile apps. JS Android iOS API Places Geocoding & reverse geocoding Learn how to get the latitude and longitude coordinates for an address or the address for coordinates. JS API Routes Getting directions Retrieve directions for multiple modes of transportation and waypoints. API Places Getting Place details Look up rich information about places, including the name, address, location, and more. JS Android iOS API Industry solutions Check out the industry-specific solutions offered by Google Maps Platform. Transportation and Logistics Integrate Google Maps directly into your ridesharing app to decrease navigation friction for your drivers and improve wait times for your customers. Asset tracking Improve business efficiencies by locating vehicles and assets in real time, visualizing where assets have traveled, and routing vehicles with complex trips. Help & Support Get help. Give help. Join the community. Stack Overflow Get help. Give Help. Build Maps karma. Issue Tracker Report a bug or open a feature request. Platform status Find out about platform incidents and outages. Support Get help from the Google Maps Platform team.